Scientists need to take control of their data and better understand how institutional policies influence their datasharing and publishing choices. **I'm working on a project to educate scientists on the licencing, copyright, and policy issues that affect their scientific output.** We need to advocate for our data and our ability to share data. I'm working to influence the policies that govern data managment, data sharing, and data licensing at my institution and developing tools that other scientists can use to adderss these issues at their institutions.

Policies, whether originating from an instiution, a journal or a funding agerncy, have a sizable impact on research workflows, outputs, and cuture. But scientists are not always imvolved in policy creation or updating. We need education, resources, and support to become advocates to make sure the polcies at our instiutions reflect the way science gets done today.

Becasue polices are institution/agency/journal specific, their adoption, editing, and influence happens in the small sphere. By identifying champions in different areas of policy, I can help set the standard for what a promotion and tenure, journal data sharing, or IP policy should be. By developing educational tools and a support netowrk, I can help scientists participate in the policy makign process at multiple levels.
    
Another major goal of my fellowship is to work on understanding the current landscape of institutional policies that apply to data and software. I want to develop tools to help scientists communicate effectively with administration, faculty, and Intellectual Property offices to advocate for policies that facilitate scientific discovery and collaboration.
